# vasp
Various scripts to manipulate input/output data for/from the VASP program. 

Includes scripts for plotting band structure (no spin, collinear spin), density of states (no spin, collinear spin, 
non-collinear spin), visualizing Kohn Sham Bloch wave functions.


## Atomic Positions and Unit Cell

### transform.py 

General purpose code to translate, rotate, stretch, and shear unit cells / atoms in the POSCAR format used by VASP.
See transform.py for more details on functionality.

Most of these transformations can be easily implemented in an excel spreadsheet, but if needs to be done repetetively 
is very useful especially if performing a series of transformations on the cell / atoms.

A regular bash script can be used for input and sucessively call transform.py multiple times.

Can be easily implemented into an automated workflow.

An example script is in vasp/examples/.
run DMABN_transform.sh which uses POSCAR in the same directory which calls transform.py multiple times.

### molecule_analyzer.m

Very specific Matlab script which uses the XDATCAR file to initially groups atoms into molecules and monitor breaking among
other properties throughout an ab initio molecular dynamics calculation.

Read through the script as it requires user input in various places.

Specifically tracts the positions of ethylene carbonate molecules and checks when they decompose
on calcium surfaces.

There is an XDATCAR file under /vasp/examples/ethylene_carbonate/ which can be used with the Matlab script.

Various output files and plots are included in the same directory to illustrate what data is gathered from the trajectory.
The output files are for 5820 time steps (1 fs time step) whereas the XDATCAR provided contains only the
first 1500 time steps due to the large file size.

### select.py

Python script to quickly add selective dynamics tags to POSCAR type files.


## Spectral Properties

### vasprun.py

Code which parses the vasprun.xml file to collect band structure data and output easy to manipulate matlab objects for plotting.


### bands_xml.m

Matlab script which imports .mat files generated by vasprun.py for plotting band structure. Requires editing by user to get
plots with the desired data.


### plotDOS.m and plotDOS.mlx

Matlab script and live script version used to plot density of states from the DOSCAR file.


## Real Space

### psinks.m

Matlab script used to plot real space wave functions from a text file created from the WAVECAR file.

Two text files which can be used with the Matlab script are provided under vasp/examples/

GC1501.txt GC111.txt

These text files are generated from the WAVECAR file using an external program. See psinks.m for details
for where to get and how to use the program.

### locpot.m

Simple Matlab script which is used to plot the real space local potential from the LOCPOT file.








